# Thinkful-Capstone-1
European Summer Apparel Sales Data with Advertisement and Ratings Numbers
Source: https://www.kaggle.com/jmmvutu/summer-products-and-sales-in-ecommerce-wish

For this research project, I would like to see the effect of advertising on product sales (summer clothes in this case), the effect of the number of ratings per product on its overall rating, the effect of product ratings on sales numbers, and the effect of merchant ratings on sales numbers. It is interesting because you get to see how sales were relative to advertising and different ratings.

I would like to see if advertising would lead to an increase in product sales given that it is widely accepted to be the case in marketing, the null being that there is no significant difference. In turn, I would like to see if products with more ratings have higher ratings in general given that more people have rated the products, the null being that the ratings will not be significantly different across the products regardless of how many ratings were given. Furthermore, I would like to see if products with higher average ratings also have higher sales, the null being that there is no difference in the sales levels. Lastly, I would like to test whether products with higher average merchant ratings have higher sales, the null being that there is no difference in the sales levels.

To test my first hypothesis, I will be comparing the sale numbers for products that were advertised versus those that were not. To test my second hypothesis, I will be comparing the distribution of ratings between two groups, one with the number of ratings below the average number of ratings and the other with the number of ratings at and above the average number of ratings. To test my third hypothesis, I will compare the sales numbers of products with average and higher-than-average product ratings with the sales numbers of products of products with lower-than-average product ratings. Lastly, I will compare the sales numbers of products with average and higher-than-average merchant ratings with the sales numbers of products of with lower-than-average merchant ratings.

I discovered that advertising taken holistically may not necessarily significantly increase product sales numbers, but one can look at subgroups within the data for further exploration. When a product has more ratings, its overall rating is expected to increase. This applies to both product and merchant ratings. Between the two different ratings, the merchant ratings seem to have a greater impact on the sales numbers.

This research can serve as a template for merchants who wish to understand the effect advertising has on product sales and if there may be a relationship between sales numbers and product ratings or merchant ratings. Specifically, this information is useful for people in marketing as they plan their campaigns and those who use ratings to make decisions.
